Psalm 109 to the chief musician a psalm
of David
do not keep silent oh god of my praise
for the mouth of the wicked and the
mouth of the deceitful have opened
against me they have spoken against me
with a lying town they have also
surrounded me with words of hatred and
fought against me without a cause in
return for my love
they are my accusers but I give myself
to prayer thus they have rewarded me
evil for good and hatred for my love set
a wicked man over him and let an accuser
stand at his right hand when he is
judged let him be found guilty and let
his prayer become sin let his days be
few and let another take his office let
his children be fatherless and his wife
a widow let his children continually be
vagabonds and beg let them seek their
bread also from their desolate places
but the creditor sees all that he has
and let strangers plunder his labor
let there be none to extend mercy to him
nor let there be any to favor his
fatherless children let his posterity be
cut off and in the generation following
let their name be blotted out let the
iniquity of his fathers be remembered
before the Lord and let not the sin of
his mother be blotted out let them be
continually before the Lord that he may
cut off the memory of them from the
earth
because he did not remember to show
mercy but persecuted the poor and needy
man that he might even slay the broken
in heart as he loved cursing so let it
come to him as he did not delight in
blessing so let it be far from him as he
clothed himself with cursing as with his
garment so let it enter his body like
water and like oil into his bones let it
be to him like the garment which covers
him and for a belt with which he curds
himself continually let this be the
Lord's reward to my accusers and to
those who speak evil against my person
but you O God the Lord deal with me for
your name's sake because your mercy is
good deliver me for I am poor and needy
and my heart is wounded within me I am
gone like a shadow when it lengthens I
am shaken off like a locust my knees are
weak through fasting and my flesh is
feeble from lack of fatness I also have
become a reproach to them when they look
at me they shake their heads help me O
Lord my god o save me according to your
mercy that they may know that this is
your hand that you Lord have done it let
them curse but you bless when they arise
let them be ashamed but let your servant
rejoice let my accusers be clothed with
shame and let them cover themselves with
their own disgrace as with a mantle I
will greatly praise the Lord with my
mouth yes I will praise him among the
multitude
for he shall stand at the right hand of
the poor to save him from those who
condemned him
you